[Music]
eight bad lessons to avoid teaching your
child
calling parenting an uneasy task would
be the understatement of the century
it's complicated it's constant and the
stakes are sky-high some parents can't
stop worrying that they're gonna mess it
up or that their kids gonna have it
tough according to some statistics
though most parents are confident in
their skills they're sure they've taught
important lessons and instilled good
values in their children well that could
be the case but it also might not be
we've checked with the best
psychologists to come up with a list of
eight bad lessons a lot of parents
unknowingly teach their kids but don't
worry we've also provided some healthy
alternatives that'll help you raise your
kids to become strong confident and
self-sufficient adults bad lesson number
one snitching is wrong when children
complain to their parents about
something another kid did parents all
too often respond with something like
nobody likes a tattletale
the lesson is don't be a snitch and many
parents think that it's a good rule to
follow and yeah it seems admirable to
encourage kids to solve their own
problems but that's not what ends up
happening in this case unfortunately
when it comes to children thought that
telling on others is bad psychologists
have noticed a tendency to avoid talking
about real problems at school if a kid
is being bullied or even worse abused by
an adult that child may not talk about
it for fear of being labeled a snitch
plus if a child gets used to keeping
secrets from you it makes it more likely
they'll do the same thing in the future
what should you teach instead be open
and honest parents should teach their
kids to talk openly about unfair or
difficult situations and be patient if
some of the stories they tell don't
really seem like a big deal through the
eyes of an adult a child can't always
tell when they need help with something
that's why you should work together to
figure out when your kid can resolve a
problem themselves versus when they need
your help
bad lesson number two children shouldn't
express their negative emotions it's
tough to see a child suffer whether
they're crying throwing a tantrum were
expressing any sort of emotional
distress and it's just too easy to shout
stop crying or quit making a scene
unfortunately these types of reactions
on the part of parents cause a great
deal of harm to a child instead of
addressing what's making the child upset
all you're doing is addressing the
behavior that's inconveniencing you or
making you uncomfortable
yelling at them like this tells your
child three things one they are the ones
being bad not whatever hurt their
feelings two negative emotions are
something shameful to be hidden and
three their feelings aren't as important
as yours in the long run it only teaches
young ones to distrust their parents and
by extension all adults kids learn to
bottle up their feelings and never
express themselves
this in turn often manifests later in
life as uncontrolled anger issues a
sense of unfulfilled entitlement and
even personality disorders
what should you teach instead encourage
your child to express their feelings in
a safe way it's fine and reasonable to
discourage your child from breaking toys
or screaming in public but if they're
upset you need to address it in an open
and honest way negative emotions need to
find a way out or else they overcrowd
the nervous system a child's brain is
only so capable of processing emotion so
they need your guidance they need help
finding ways to express bad feelings in
a constructive rather than destructive
way convey to them that their feelings
are valid and try to talk them through
the issue if they're making a fuss or
throwing a tantrum in public take them
to a private isolated place away from
others spend time with them until their
feelings subside talk about why they're
upset and
try to find a solution bad lesson number
three you should try to make people like
you who doesn't want their children to
have a peaceful happy life and all too
often that means getting along with
everyone at school why not encourage
your child to be nice to everyone if
you're not getting any reports from
their teacher about arguments or fights
with the other kids that must be a good
sign right
and not exactly if you teach your kids
to be nice to absolutely everyone at
school then they'll start thinking that
their peers are more important than they
are and that they need to please their
fellow classmates this in turn opens
your kids up to exploitation it's easy
to confuse being nice with letting
classmates copy their work or even doing
their homework for them children who
learn at an early age to please everyone
often grow up to have low self-esteem
and difficulty making decisions on their
own
what should you teach instead be
respectful but assertive a child should
not have to sacrifice their own
interests and goals to please others and
they shouldn't let anyone force them to
do something they don't want to do if
other students ask them to copy their
work and threaten to stop being their
friend if they say no encourage your
child to say no politely but firmly
those other kids were never interested
in being their friend anyway children
who learn not to let others take
advantage of them know their worth as
human beings and are much more able to
achieve their goals as adults bad lesson
number four get good grades or you'll
never get a good job
if a child messes up a test or slacks
off with their homework the prospect of
a sad adulthood or flipping burgers for
the rest of your life is an easy threat
to make but be careful of turning your
child into an overachiever of course
good grades are great and children
should be encouraged to work hard in
school but if a kid associates good
grades with success they're in for a
rude awakening when they meet an actual
road
in life like if they don't get into the
college they wanted or they're turned
down for their dream job for instance
life's not always fair especially when
you've worked so hard for your perfect
grades only to be slapped in the face by
reality it's easy for an overachiever
to think it's their own fault they
didn't get the job they wanted that it's
something wrong with them and not that
there was simply another more qualified
candidate what should you teach instead
work hard to gain knowledge but don't
wrap yourself up in good grades
[Music]
education is important there's no
arguing that it can open a lot of doors
for you in life and give you invaluable
life experience but values and knowledge
and skills you gain more than the marks
on your report cards Plus even if your
child doesn't get good grades that
doesn't mean they're not intelligent dr.
Howard Gardner a researcher at Harvard
University has identified seven distinct
types of intelligence including visual
spatial bodily kinesthetic and musical
intelligences standardized tests measure
only one kind of logical intelligence
leaving out other forms in which your
child might excel bad lesson number five
always the best for my baby as parents
it's easy to dote on your children and
want to buy them all sorts of toys and
presents
I mean what's better than seeing their
face light up when they get something
new and cool after all when they're
happy you're happy right according to
sociologists parents in the US are
spending more and more on their children
every year but Ashley ener is a mother
and financial writer thinks that parents
these days have gone overboard she
recommends you carefully consider
whether something you intend to buy for
your children is really necessary or
even helpful are you trying to give them
something you didn't have in your
childhood are you just trying to buy
their affection children who get
everything they want can grow up spoiled
and convinced that they deserve more
than others Plus kids emulate their
parents in most ways and if
see you spending lavishly odds are
they'll do the same what lesson should
you teach be responsible with money
saving money doesn't make you a bad
parent
in fact financially responsible parents
make great role models for the children
who learn the value of money and use it
as a tool not as entertainment the
occasional present or treat is fine and
even necessary to maintaining healthy
morale but resist the urge to indulge
your child at every turn you want to
build a relationship with them based on
the little but also important things in
life like spending quality time together
your relationship should not be strictly
transactional buy things for your kid is
not an effective path to winning their
long-term affection sure they'll like
you but it'll be for what you can get
for them not for who you are or what you
mean to them as adults they'll see
others the same way as tools for their
use and benefit they might grow up as
narcissist or exploiters which will
probably only make them end up alone and
miserable
yikes definitely not a pleasant way to
live don't you think bad lesson number
six making a mistake means losing
something for a parent there are two
fundamental responses to a child's
behavior reinforcement will make it more
likely that kid does it again while
punishment discourages the behavior they
can be broken down into four sub
categories one positive reinforcement
means giving the child something they
want like ice cream two negative
reinforcement involves taking away
something the child doesn't like like an
early bedtime three positive punishment
means adding something the child isn't a
fan of such as extra chores
and for negative punishment is removing
something the child loves like TV or
video games it's typically the last one
that parents turn to most often when
their kid does something that displeases
them it's easy to take away their TV
privileges video games or time spent
with friends in response to a bad grade
and there's always the classic sending
them to bed without dinner when they've
mouthed off but our punishments like
these really an effective method for
discouraging bad behavior hmm not really
at least according to the experts
psychologists have been saying it for
decades depriving a child of something
is not an effective form of punishment
this is one of the most dangerous
features of a toxic parent who gets to
play judge jury and executioner for
their kids and the rules of the game
aren't always clear since the severity
of the punishment often depends on the
parents mood confiscating something your
child loves teaches them that whoever
has power can do whatever they want plus
going to bed without dinner
that's just outright cruel what should
you teach instead honest mistakes don't
need to be punished
if your child gets a bad grade or flunks
a test that might mean they just need
help with a tough subject give them a
hand with their homework or hire a tutor
pay attention to the child's behavior
and see if it's really a cry for help if
your child does need to be punished
consider a more positive punishment like
giving them extra chores to do hopefully
the whole time they're doing these
chores they'll be thinking about how
silly it was to do what they did and
decide to never do it again
the key is to be consistent and fair
don't teach your kid that might makes
right bad lesson number 7 children
should never be idle
no one wants their kids to be bored
because that's when they usually get
into trouble but be wary of signing them
up for all sorts of extracurriculars or
forcing them to join a sports team when
they have no interest whatsoever you
really don't need to keep kids busy and
entertained around the clock and if you
try you may end up doing more harm than
good children who are constantly getting
your undivided attention can grow up
thinking that they should always get it
from others they may act out or
misbehave in order to get attention and
resent people who don't give it to them
plus if you're sending your kids off to
after-school classes dance lessons
sports practice youth groups and so on
you may be denying them a chance to
spend some time on their own which is
just as important believe it or not
extracurriculars are great and all but
don't overdo it
what should you teach instead it's okay
to entertain yourself many psychologists
claim that children won't learn to rely
on themselves if their parents don't
give them some alone time provide them
with toys books and other activities but
let your child choose how to entertain
themselves a lot some free me time in
their schedule and think of it as a
little rest for yourself the busy parent
you are bad lesson number eight children
must always share their toys sharing is
caring right well it is but to an extent
children who are forced to share
something against their will often
develop negative associations with
sharing especially if the child
considers a request unfair this is often
the case when a younger child wants to
borrow their elder siblings toy even if
they already have their own put yourself
in your child's shoes do you really like
giving your personal belongings to other
people for however long a time are you
sure you don't feel anxious that your
stuff will get broken or ruined it's
okay you can be honest most people
adults included don't like sharing so
why force your kids to
children can be very possessive of their
belongings even if their silly little
toys seem trivial in comparison to stuff
adults have like houses cars and power
tools but look at it from their point of
view their silly little things mean a
lot to them they may attach some special
emotional importance to their favorite
ball and asking them to hand it over to
someone else is like asking them to part
with their favorite thing in the whole
wide world
Plus adults attach sentimental feelings
to objects to remind you what should you
teach instead sharing is best when it's
fair encourage your children to share
their toys while instilling in them a
sense of fairness if another child wants
to borrow the ball they're playing with
it's reasonable for the kids to play
with that ball together if another kid
likes your child's toy better than their
own maybe they can trade it's also ok
for your child to have their own
possessions and want to keep them if
your kid doesn't learn to say no when
something's important to them you risk
them growing up into people pleasers
that stretch themselves out too thin
constantly doing favors for others did
any of these bad parenting lessons
surprise you do you agree or disagree
with any of them tell us what you think
in the comment section below and don't
forget to give the video a like share it
with your friends or parents and hit
that subscribe button to stay on the
bright side of life
you